8.8 alpha5 release notes (#5917)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/reference/announcements-release-notes/880/880-release-notes.md

| ---------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| 14 October 2025        | 13 April 2027                | -            | -            | -            |

## 8.8.0-alpha5

| Release date | Changelog(s)                                                                                                                                                                               | Blog                                                                              |
| :----------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 10 June 2025 | <ul><li>[ Camunda 8 core ](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases/tag/8.8.0-alpha5)</li><li>[ Connectors ](https://github.com/camunda/connectors/releases/tag/8.8.0-alpha5)</li></ul> | [Release blog](https://camunda.com/blog/2025/05/camunda-alpha-release-june-2025/) |

> ### AI Agent Connector Longterm Memory (RAG)
> 
> Providing long-term memory for the AI agent connector within an ad hoc sub-process ensures previous conversations are automatically saved, retrieved, and considered through a built-in RAG mechanism.
> 
> - Adds long-term memory support to the AI agent connector.
> - Automatically triggers RAG logic to retrieve relevant past conversations.
> - Simplifies memory management by removing the need for manual data handling and custom retrieval logic.
> 
> <!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2744 -->

Reviewer: The release notes for these epics were not properly maintained, sorry. While we made the AI Agent connector already available with alpha4, we decided to announce it with alpha5 as we now also have documentation available. I'd suggest the following (feel free to rephrase):

```suggestion
### AI Agent Connector

The [AI Agent connector](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/8.8/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/agentic-ai-aiagent/) enables AI agents to integrate with an LLM to provide interaction/reasoning capabilities. This connector is designed for use with an ad-hoc sub-process in a feedback loop, providing automated user interaction and tool selection.

It provides:

- support for different LLM providers, such as OpenAI or Anthropic
- conversational/short-term memory handling to enable feedback loops and follow-up tasks
- tool resolution and orchestration through tools defined in an ad-hoc sub-process

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2779 -->

### Vector database connector

The [vector database connector](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/8.8/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/embeddings-vector-db/) allows embedding, storing, and retrieving Large Language Model (LLM) embeddings. This enables building AI-based solutions for your organizations, such as context document search, long-term LLM memory, and agentic AI interaction in combination with the AI Agent connector (RAG).

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2744 -->
```
